---
title: 'Funding Opportunity from the Human Biomolecular Atlas Program (HuBMAP)'
layout: post
tag: [fundopp, rbk]
---

The NIH Common Fund [Human Biomolecular Atlas Program (HuBMAP)](https://commonfund.nih.gov/hubmap) aims to develop a framework for functional mapping the human body with cellular resolution to enhance our understanding of cellular organization-function. HuBMAP will accelerate the development of the next generation of tools and techniques to generate 3D tissue maps using validated high-content, high-throughput imaging and omics assays, and establish an open data platform for integrating, visualizing data to build multi-dimensional maps. HuBMAP also intends to build partnerships with other funding agencies, programs, and the biomedical research community.

The HuBMAP recently issued a new Funding Opportunity Announcements (FOA) to solicit applications for the [HuBMAP Integration, Visualization, and Engagement (HIVE) Initiative (OT2) RFA-RM-18-001](https://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/rfa-files/RFA-RM-18-001.html). This vision for the HIVE is that it will: 1) manage the data generated by the Consortium, 2) coordinate internal and external Consortium activities, 3) develop novel tools for visualizing, searching and modelling data and 4) build an atlas of tissue maps.

When fully realized, the HIVE will be the central hub of a collaborative community and data framework for comprehensively mapping the human body at high resolution. This goal will be achieved in close collaboration with the HuBMAP Consortium, other programs and the worldwide research community to develop a platform that hosts an interactive set of human tissue maps in the spatial framework of the human body. Users of the HIVE will be able to access, search, query, visualize, and model these 3D biomolecular maps to better understand the relationship between tissue organization and function, how this relationship may change over the lifespan, across the health-disease continuum, or differs between individuals.

For additional information about [RFA-RM-18-001](https://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/rfa-files/RFA-RM-18-001.html), **please attend the webinar scheduled for Thursday February 8th from 12:00-1:00PM** which will include presentations from NIH staff and a question and answer session from prospective applicants. Please register for this event [here](https://nih.webex.com/nih/onstage/g.php?MTID=e1c2d2eb23a4a2c38fd573d048734f866). 

The [NIH Common Fund](http://commonfund.nih.gov/4Dnucleome/index) (formerly the NIH Roadmap) encourages collaboration and supports a series of exceptionally high impact, trans-NIH programs. These programs are supported by the Common Fund, and managed by the NIH Office of the Director in partnership with the various NIH Institutes, Centers, and Offices.

The National Institutes of Health (NIH) –"The Nation's Medical Research Agency" – includes 27 Institutes and Centers and is a component of the U. S. Department of Health and Human Services. It is the primary federal agency for conducting and supporting basic, clinical and translational medical research, and it investigates the causes, treatments and cures for both common and rare diseases. For more information about the NIH and its programs, visit the [NIH website](http://www.nih.gov/).

